Keynote Invitation
==================


Sample letter to contact and invite somebody to be a keynote speaker


Dear Dr. **X**,

On behalf of the SciPy 2013 organizing committee, I would like to
invite you to present your work as a keynote speaker at the twelfth
annual Scientific Computing with Python conference [0], in Austin TX,
June 24th-29th. We would of course cover all your expenses for the
duration of the conference.

This year SciPy has two topical themes in addition to a general track:
Machine Learning and Tools for Reproducibility. Your applications of
machine learning in science would help focus our conference around a
topic that is becoming more prevalent.  We expect to have two more
keynotes, one on machine learning tools in Python and another on
reproducibility tools, but the invitations are still pending.  On a
personal note, **X**.

SciPy is a community dedicated to the advancement of scientific
computing through open source Python software for mathematics,
science, and engineering. At the annual SciPy Conference over 300
participants from academic, commercial, and governmental organizations
showcase their latest projects, learn from skilled users and
developers, and collaborate on code development. We have a thriving
highly open community that you will find quite engaging and eager. It
is organized in 2 days of tutorials (June 24th-25th) 2 days of
conference (June 26th-27th) and 2 days of sprints (June 28th-29th).

We would appreciate if you would let us know if you can come as soon
as possible. We would also be very happy to discuss this or answer
whatever question you might have over the phone (or real time
interaction system of your choice) if you would like.

Sincerely,

Co-chairs of SciPy 2013
Andy R. Terrel, University of Texas, andy.terrel@gmail.com
Jonathan Rocher, Enthought, Inc, jrocher@enthought.com
